then Joshua rose early in the morning
and they set out from acacia Grove and
came to the Jordan he and all the
children of Israel and lodged there
before they crossed over so it was after
three days that the officers went
through the camp and they commanded the
people when you see the Ark of the
Covenant of the Lord your God and the
priests the Levites bearing it then you
shall set out from your place and go
after it yet there shall be a space
between you in it about two thousand
cubits by measure do not come near it
that you may know the way by which you
must go or you have not passed this way
before and Joshua said to the people
sanctify yourselves for tomorrow the
Lord will do wonders among you then
Joshua spoke to the priests take up the
Ark of the Covenant and cross over
before the people so they took up the
Ark of the Covenant and went before the
people and the Lord said to Joshua this
day I will begin to exhort you in the
sight of all Israel that they may know
that as I was with Moses so I will be
you shall command the priests who ver
the Ark of the Covenant saying when you
have come to the edge of the water of
the Jordan you shall stand in the Jordan
so Joshua said to the children of Israel
come here and hear the words of the Lord
your God by this you shall know that the
Living God is among you and that he will
without fail drive out from before you
the Canaanites and the Hittites and the
highlights and the perizzites and the
girgashites and the amorite and the
jebusites behold the Ark of the Covenant
of the Lord of all the earth is crossing
over before you into the Jordan now
therefore take for yourselves twelve men
from the tribes of Israel one man from
every tribe and it shall come to pass as
soon as the soles of the feet of the
priests who bear the ark of the Lord the
Lord of all the earth shall rest in the
waters of the Jordan that the waters of
the Jordan shall be cut off the waters
that come down from upstream and they
shall stand as a heap so it was when the
people set out from their camp to cross
over the Jordan with the priests bearing
the Ark of the Covenant before the
people and as those who bore the ark
came to the jaw and the feet of the
priests who bore the ark dipped in the
edge of the water for the Jordan
overflows all its banks during the whole
time of harvest that the waters which
came down from the upstream Stood Still
and rose in a heap very far away at Adam
the city that is besides Arata
so the waters that went down into the
sea of Erika the salt sea failed and
were cut off and the people crossed over
opposite Jericho then the priests who
bore the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord
stood firm on dry ground in the midst of
the job and all Israel crossed over on
dry ground until all the people had
crossed completely over the job